Now we don't specify an active profile
inside of the Spring framework at
runtime there's actually one that's kind
of active it's a special profile called
Default so you can specify beans with
Default to be added into the Spring
context when there are no other beans
of that type available so this is a very
special case and the use case that we
want to do here is I want to specify
have the English greeting come out in
our controller when there is no other
active profile that's going to meet that
criteria.So this is a very special case
so I want to say if I don't have any
active profiles use this one by Default
so it's an easy thing to remember that
the Default is the Default bean and what
we're going to do is set it up. I'm actually introducing
another language. We're going to use
German you'll see how bad my German is
coming up and so we'll have a German
saying coming out to the screen when we
have de active, English and Spanish will
still work with those but what breaks is
then Spring doesn't know what to do
because all these beans, what's
happening in the background, all these
beans will have a profile associated
with them if we're not running an active
profile those beans are not eligible
anymore so we're going to mark one of
them as Sefault so we'll be eligible to
being brought into the Spring context. Now I've gone in and added another primary
service but this time we can see that
I've marked it with "de" for German and
I'm pretty sure Google Translate did not
get that one correct but roll with that
is in German because my German is even
less than my Spanish but we're going
to get a German greeting out of this and
I want to use that when the Profile "de"
is active and this works out great
because if I come over here to application.properties,
if I change this to de,
we're going to see that I get the output
and that works fine. I got my little
German saying there and that's exactly
what I want if I go back to en,
I will also get it. Alright I will get
the proper proper greeting so I get the
English version then of course that es
for Spanish now I have three of those
and this all works out great but
what if I don't have one I come in here
and run it like this, now I get an error
and it's saying that it sees the
other ones and what's happening here
this is important to understand because
I don't have one that's Primary. I'm not
using a Qualifier that sees all other
threes and it's Spring is falling back
to trying to autowire by type. So it's
like oh you didn't tell me what you
wanted so but I see that you want an
implementation of this but I have three
implementations of it. I don't know which
one to use and what we can do is when
there is no Profile active, there's
actually a hidden one called Default and
what we can do is go into our Greeting service, the PrimaryGreetingService
and this will actually take an array and
we can go in and add in default and now
this will be active when there's no
active profile or "en" as our active
profile. So what we're saying is that we
want in the English version to be the
default bean that gets selected and
that is a default profile now it's
important to understand if we could
change back, we go back to German you'll
see that it gets ignored again just like
it should and default is only active
when there are no other Profiles active
so that's an important nuance to
understand because I've gotten bit by
that in the past myself so important
little nuance to understand that the
default Profile is only active when
other Profiles
are not active.
Okay I hope by now you can start seeing
how how powerful and how many options we do
have available for us in wiring up bean
so we have four or five implementations
of our beans, our Greeting service now
and we are using a number of different
options so we have quite a bit of a
toolbox here as to how we compose our
Spring applications. Now there's a
lot of different ways here that we can
use and you can see what a versatile
tool set this is and as you get more and
more comfortable with working within
Spring you'll see how easy it is to
compose your application. We started off
talking about dependency injection
having these externalized and having the
Spring container manage things now
you're starting to see that what a great
tool set we have as to how we can really
dynamically compose our application at
runtime using Springs IoC container.